<!--
# Copyright 2018-2023, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
#  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
#  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Model Configuration

**Is this your first time writing a config file?** Check out
[this guide](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_1-model_deployment#model-configuration)
 or this
[example](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/HuggingFace#examples)!

Each model in a [model repository](model_repository.md) must include a
model configuration that provides required and optional information
about the model. Typically, this configuration is provided in a
config.pbtxt file specified as [ModelConfig
protobuf](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/common/blob/main/protobuf/model_config.proto).
In some cases, discussed in [Auto-Generated Model
Configuration](#auto-generated-model-configuration), the model
configuration can be generated automatically by Triton and so does not
need to be provided explicitly.

This section describes the most important model configuration
properties but the documentation in the [ModelConfig
protobuf](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/common/blob/main/protobuf/model_config.proto)
should also be consulted.

## Minimal Model Configuration

A minimal model configuration must specify the [*platform* and/or
*backend*
properties](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/README.md#backends),
the *max_batch_size* property, and the input and output tensors of the
model.

As an example consider a TensorRT model that has two inputs, *input0*
and *input1*, and one output, *output0*, all of which are 16 entry
float32 tensors. The minimal configuration is:

```
  platform: "tensorrt_plan"
  max_batch_size: 8
  input [
    {
      name: "input0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    },
    {
      name: "input1"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
  output [
    {
      name: "output0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
```

### Name, Platform and Backend

The model configuration *name* property is optional. If the name of
the model is not specified in the configuration it is assumed to be
the same as the model repository directory containing the model. If
*name* is specified it must match the name of the model repository
directory containing the model.  The required values for *platform*
and *backend* are described in the [backend
documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/README.md#backends).

### Model Transaction Policy

The *model_transaction_policy* property describes the nature of
transactions expected from the model.

#### Decoupled

This boolean setting indicates whether responses generated by
the model are [decoupled](./decoupled_models.md)
with the requests issued to it. Using decoupled means the number of
responses generated by the model may differ from number of requests
issued, and the responses may be out of order relative to the order
of requests. The default is false, which means the model will
generate exactly one response for each request.

### Maximum Batch Size

The *max_batch_size* property indicates the maximum batch size that
the model supports for the [types of
batching](architecture.md#models-and-schedulers) that can be exploited
by Triton. If the model's batch dimension is the first dimension, and
all inputs and outputs to the model have this batch dimension, then
Triton can use its [dynamic batcher](#dynamic-batcher) or [sequence
batcher](#sequence-batcher) to automatically use batching with the
model. In this case *max_batch_size* should be set to a value
greater-or-equal-to 1 that indicates the maximum batch size that
Triton should use with the model.

For models that do not support batching, or do not support batching in
the specific ways described above, *max_batch_size* must be set to
zero.


### Inputs and Outputs

Each model input and output must specify a name, datatype, and shape.
The name specified for an input or output tensor must match the name
expected by the model.

#### Special Conventions for PyTorch Backend

**Naming Convention:**

Due to the absence of sufficient metadata for inputs/outputs in TorchScript
model files, the "name" attribute of inputs/outputs in the configuration must
follow specific naming conventions. These are detailed below.

1. [Only for Inputs] When the input is not a Dictionary of Tensors, the input
names in the configuration file should mirror the names of the input arguments to
the forward function in the model's definition.

For example, if the forward function for the Torchscript model was defined as
`forward(self, input0, input1)`, the first and second inputs should be named
"input0" and "input1" respectively.

2. `<name>__<index>`: Where \<name\> can be any string and \<index\> is an
integer index that refers to the position of the corresponding input/output.

This means that if there are two inputs and two outputs, the first and second
inputs can be named "INPUT__0" and "INPUT__1" and the first and second outputs
can be named "OUTPUT__0" and "OUTPUT__1" respectively.

3. If all inputs (or outputs) do not follow the same naming convention, then we
enforce strict ordering from the model configuration i.e. we assume the order of
inputs (or outputs) in the configuration is the true ordering of these inputs.

***Dictionary of Tensors as Input:***

The PyTorch backend supports passing of inputs to the model in the form of a
Dictionary of Tensors. This is only supported when there is a *single* input to
the model of type Dictionary that contains a mapping of string to tensor. As an
example, if there is a model that expects the input of the form:

```
{'A': tensor1, 'B': tensor2}
```

The input names in the configuration in this case must not follow the above
naming conventions `<name>__<index>`. Instead, the names of the inputs in this
case must map to the string value 'key' for that specific tensor. For this case,
the inputs would be "A" and "B", where input "A" refers to value corresponding to
tensor1 and "B" refers to the value corresponding to tensor2.

<br>

The datatypes allowed for input and output tensors varies based on the
type of the model. Section [Datatypes](#datatypes) describes the
allowed datatypes and how they map to the datatypes of each model
type.

An input shape indicates the shape of an input tensor expected by the
model and by Triton in inference requests. An output shape indicates
the shape of an output tensor produced by the model and returned by
Triton in response to an inference request. Both input and output
shape must have rank greater-or-equal-to 1, that is, the empty shape
**[ ]** is not allowed.

Input and output shapes are specified by a combination of
*max_batch_size* and the dimensions specified by the input or output
*dims* property. For models with *max_batch_size* greater-than 0, the
full shape is formed as [ -1 ] + *dims*. For models with
*max_batch_size* equal to 0, the full shape is formed as *dims*. For
example, for the following configuration the shape of "input0" is [
-1, 16 ] and the shape of "output0" is [ -1, 4 ].

```
  platform: "tensorrt_plan"
  max_batch_size: 8
  input [
    {
      name: "input0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
  output [
    {
      name: "output0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 4 ]
    }
  ]
```

For a configuration that is identical except that *max_batch_size*
equal to 0, the shape of "input0" is [ 16 ] and the shape of "output0"
is [ 4 ].

```
  platform: "tensorrt_plan"
  max_batch_size: 0
  input [
    {
      name: "input0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
  output [
    {
      name: "output0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 4 ]
    }
  ]
```

For models that support input and output tensors with variable-size
dimensions, those dimensions can be listed as -1 in the input and
output configuration. For example, if a model requires a 2-dimensional
input tensor where the first dimension must be size 4 but the second
dimension can be any size, the model configuration for that input
would include *dims: [ 4, -1 ]*. Triton would then accept inference
requests where that input tensor's second dimension was any value
greater-or-equal-to 0. The model configuration can be more restrictive
than what is allowed by the underlying model. For example, even though
the framework model itself allows the second dimension to be any size,
the model configuration could be specified as *dims: [ 4, 4 ]*. In
this case, Triton would only accept inference requests where the input
tensor's shape was exactly *[ 4, 4 ]*.

The [*reshape* property](#reshape) must be used if there is a mismatch
between the input shape that Triton receives in an inference request
and the input shape expected by the model. Similarly, the *reshape*
property must be used if there is a mismatch between the output shape
produced by the model and the shape that Triton returns in a response
to an inference request.

Model inputs can specify `allow_ragged_batch` to indicate that the
input is a [ragged input](ragged_batching.md#ragged-batching). The field is
used with [dynamic batcher](#dynamic-batcher) to allow batching without
enforcing the input to have the same shape in all requests.

## Auto-Generated Model Configuration

The model configuration file containing the required
settings must be available with each model to be deployed
on Triton. In some cases the required portions of the model
configuration can be generated automatically by Triton. The
required portion of the model configuration are the settings
shown in the [Minimal Model Configuration](#minimal-model-configuration).
By default, Triton will try to complete these sections. However,
by starting Triton with `--disable-auto-complete-config` option,
Triton can be configured to not auto-complete model configuration
on the backend side. However, even with this option Triton will
fill in missing [`instance_group`](#instance-groups) settings with
default values.

Triton can derive all the required settings automatically for
most of the TensorRT, TensorFlow saved-model, ONNX models, and OpenVINO models.
For Python models, [`auto_complete_config`](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/python_backend/#auto_complete_config)
function can be implemented in Python backend to provide
[`max_batch_size`](#maximum-batch-size), [`input`](#inputs-and-outputs)
and [`output`](#inputs-and-outputs) properties using `set_max_batch_size`,
`add_input`, and `add_output` functions. These properties will allow Triton
to load the Python model with [Minimal Model Configuration](#minimal-model-configuration)
in absence of a configuration file.
All other model types *must* provide a model configuration file.

When developing a custom backend, you can populate required settings
in the configuration and call `TRITONBACKEND_ModelSetConfig` API to
update completed configuration with Triton core. You can take a
look at [TensorFlow](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tensorflow_backend)
and [Onnxruntime](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/onnxruntime_backend)
backends as examples of how to achieve this. Currently, only
[inputs, outputs](#inputs-and-outputs), [max_batch_size](#maximum-batch-size)
and [dynamic batching](#dynamic-batcher) settings can be populated by
backend. For custom backends, your config.pbtxt file must
include a `backend` field or your model name must be in the
form `<model_name>.<backend_name>`.

You can also see the model configuration generated for a model by
Triton using the [model configuration endpoint](../protocol/extension_model_configuration.md). The
easiest way to do this is to use a utility like *curl*:

```bash
$ curl localhost:8000/v2/models/<model name>/config
```

This will return a JSON representation of the generated model
configuration. From this you can take the max_batch_size, inputs, and
outputs sections of the JSON and convert it to a config.pbtxt file.
Triton only generates the [minimal portion of the model
configuration](#minimal-model-configuration). You must still provide
the optional portions of the model configuration by editing the
config.pbtxt file.

### Default Max Batch Size and Dynamic Batcher

When a model is using the auto-complete feature, a default maximum
batch size may be set by using the `--backend-config=default-max-batch-size=<int>`
command line argument. This allows all models which are capable of
batching and which make use of [Auto Generated Model Configuration](#auto-generated-model-configuration)
to have a default maximum batch size. This value is set to 4 by
default. Backend developers may make use of this default-max-batch-size
by obtaining it from the TRITONBACKEND_BackendConfig api. Currently, the
following backends which utilize these default batch values and turn on
dynamic batching in their generated model configurations are:

1. [TensorFlow backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tensorflow_backend)
2. [Onnxruntime backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/onnxruntime_backend)
3. [TensorRT backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tensorrt_backend)
   1. TensorRT models store the maximum batch size explicitly and do not make use
   of the default-max-batch-size parameter. However, if max_batch_size > 1
   and no [scheduler](model_configuration.md#scheduling-and-batching)
   is provided, the dynamic batch scheduler will be enabled.

If a value greater than 1 for the maximum batch size is set for the
model, the [dynamic_batching](#dynamic-batcher) config will be set
if no scheduler is provided in the configuration file.


## Datatypes

The following table shows the tensor datatypes supported by
Triton. The first column shows the name of the datatype as it appears
in the model configuration file. The next four columns show the
corresponding datatype for supported model frameworks. If a model
framework does not have an entry for a given datatype, then Triton
does not support that datatype for that model. The sixth column,
labeled "API", shows the corresponding datatype for the TRITONSERVER C
API, TRITONBACKEND C API, HTTP/REST protocol and GRPC protocol. The
last column shows the corresponding datatype for the Python numpy
library.

|Model Config  |TensorRT      |TensorFlow    |ONNX Runtime  |PyTorch  |API      |NumPy         |
|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|---------|---------|--------------|
|TYPE_BOOL     | kBOOL        |DT_BOOL       |BOOL          |kBool    |BOOL     |bool          |
|TYPE_UINT8    | kUINT8       |DT_UINT8      |UINT8         |kByte    |UINT8    |uint8         |
|TYPE_UINT16   |              |DT_UINT16     |UINT16        |         |UINT16   |uint16        |
|TYPE_UINT32   |              |DT_UINT32     |UINT32        |         |UINT32   |uint32        |
|TYPE_UINT64   |              |DT_UINT64     |UINT64        |         |UINT64   |uint64        |
|TYPE_INT8     | kINT8        |DT_INT8       |INT8          |kChar    |INT8     |int8          |
|TYPE_INT16    |              |DT_INT16      |INT16         |kShort   |INT16    |int16         |
|TYPE_INT32    | kINT32       |DT_INT32      |INT32         |kInt     |INT32    |int32         |
|TYPE_INT64    |              |DT_INT64      |INT64         |kLong    |INT64    |int64         |
|TYPE_FP16     | kHALF        |DT_HALF       |FLOAT16       |         |FP16     |float16       |
|TYPE_FP32     | kFLOAT       |DT_FLOAT      |FLOAT         |kFloat   |FP32     |float32       |
|TYPE_FP64     |              |DT_DOUBLE     |DOUBLE        |kDouble  |FP64     |float64       |
|TYPE_STRING   |              |DT_STRING     |STRING        |         |BYTES    |dtype(object) |
|TYPE_BF16     |              |              |              |         |BF16     |              |

For TensorRT each value is in the nvinfer1::DataType namespace. For
example, nvinfer1::DataType::kFLOAT is the 32-bit floating-point
datatype.

For TensorFlow each value is in the tensorflow namespace. For example,
tensorflow::DT_FLOAT is the 32-bit floating-point value.

For ONNX Runtime each value is prepended with ONNX_TENSOR_ELEMENT_DATA_TYPE_.
For example, ONNX_TENSOR_ELEMENT_DATA_TYPE_FLOAT is the 32-bit floating-point
datatype.

For PyTorch each value is in the torch namespace. For example, torch::kFloat
is the 32-bit floating-point datatype.

For Numpy each value is in the numpy module. For example, numpy.float32
is the 32-bit floating-point datatype.

## Reshape

The *ModelTensorReshape* property on a model configuration input or
output is used to indicate that the input or output shape accepted by
the inference API differs from the input or output shape expected or
produced by the underlying framework model or custom backend.

For an input, *reshape* can be used to reshape the input tensor to a
different shape expected by the framework or backend. A common
use-case is where a model that supports batching expects a batched
input to have shape *[ batch-size ]*, which means that the batch
dimension fully describes the shape. For the inference API the
equivalent shape *[ batch-size, 1 ]* must be specified since each
input must specify a non-empty *dims*. For this case the input should
be specified as:

```
  input [
    {
      name: "in"
      dims: [ 1 ]
      reshape: { shape: [ ] }
    }
```

For an output, *reshape* can be used to reshape the output tensor
produced by the framework or backend to a different shape that is
returned by the inference API. A common use-case is where a model that
supports batching expects a batched output to have shape *[ batch-size
]*, which means that the batch dimension fully describes the
shape. For the inference API the equivalent shape *[ batch-size, 1 ]*
must be specified since each output must specify a non-empty
*dims*. For this case the output should be specified as:

```
  output [
    {
      name: "in"
      dims: [ 1 ]
      reshape: { shape: [ ] }
    }
```

## Shape Tensors

For models that support shape tensors, the *is_shape_tensor* property
must be set appropriately for inputs and outputs that are acting as
shape tensors. The following shows an example configuration that
specifies shape tensors.

```
  name: "myshapetensormodel"
  platform: "tensorrt_plan"
  max_batch_size: 8
  input [
    {
      name: "input0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 1 , 3]
    },
    {
      name: "input1"
      data_type: TYPE_INT32
      dims: [ 2 ]
      is_shape_tensor: true
    }
  ]
  output [
    {
      name: "output0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 1 , 3]
    }
  ]
```

As discussed above, Triton assumes that batching occurs along the
first dimension which is not listed in in the input or output tensor
*dims*. However, for shape tensors, batching occurs at the first shape
value. For the above example, an inference request must provide inputs
with the following shapes.

```
  "input0": [ x, 1, 3]
  "input1": [ 3 ]
  "output0": [ x, 1, 3]
```

Where *x* is the batch size of the request. Triton requires the shape
tensors to be marked as shape tensors in the model when using
batching. Note that "input1" has shape *[ 3 ]* and not *[ 2 ]*, which
is how it is described in model configuration. As `myshapetensormodel`
model is a batching model, the batch size should be provided as an
additional value. Triton will accumulate all the shape values together
for "input1" in batch dimension before issuing the request to model.

For example, assume the client sends following three requests to Triton
with following inputs:

```
Request1:
input0: [[[1,2,3]]] <== shape of this tensor [1,1,3]
input1: [1,4,6] <== shape of this tensor [3]

Request2:
input0: [[[4,5,6]], [[7,8,9]]] <== shape of this tensor [2,1,3]
input1: [2,4,6] <== shape of this tensor [3]

Request3:
input0: [[[10,11,12]]] <== shape of this tensor [1,1,3]
input1: [1,4,6] <== shape of this tensor [3]
```

Assuming these requests get batched together would be delivered to the
model as:


```
Batched Requests to model:
input0: [[[1,2,3]], [[4,5,6]], [[7,8,9]], [[10,11,12]]] <== shape of this tensor [4,1,3]
input1: [4, 4, 6] <== shape of this tensor [3]

```

Currently, only TensorRT supports shape tensors. Read [Shape Tensor I/O](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/tensorrt/developer-guide/index.html#shape_tensor_io)
to learn more about shape tensors.

## Version Policy

Each model can have one or more
[versions](model_repository.md#model-versions). The
*ModelVersionPolicy* property of the model configuration is used to
set one of the following policies.

* *All*: All versions of the model that are available in the model
  repository are available for inferencing.
  ```version_policy: { all: {}}```

* *Latest*: Only the latest ‘n’ versions of the model in the
  repository are available for inferencing. The latest versions of the
  model are the numerically greatest version numbers.
  ```version_policy: { latest: { num_versions: 2}}```

* *Specific*: Only the specifically listed versions of the model are
  available for inferencing.
  ```version_policy: { specific: { versions: [1,3]}}```

If no version policy is specified, then *Latest* (with n=1) is used as
the default, indicating that only the most recent version of the model
is made available by Triton. In all cases, the [addition or removal of
version subdirectories](model_management.md) from the model repository
can change which model version is used on subsequent inference
requests.

The following configuration specifies that all versions of the model
will be available from the server.

```
  platform: "tensorrt_plan"
  max_batch_size: 8
  input [
    {
      name: "input0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    },
    {
      name: "input1"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
  output [
    {
      name: "output0"
      data_type: TYPE_FP32
      dims: [ 16 ]
    }
  ]
  version_policy: { all { }}
```

## Instance Groups

Triton can provide multiple [instances of a
model](architecture.md#concurrent-model-execution) so that multiple
inference requests for that model can be handled simultaneously. The
model configuration *ModelInstanceGroup* property is used to specify
the number of execution instances that should be made available and
what compute resource should be used for those instances.

### Multiple Model Instances

By default, a single execution instance of the model is created for
each GPU available in the system. The instance-group setting can be
used to place multiple execution instances of a model on every GPU or
on only certain GPUs. For example, the following configuration will
place two execution instances of the model to be available on each
system GPU.

```
  instance_group [
    {
      count: 2
      kind: KIND_GPU
    }
  ]
```

And the following configuration will place one execution instance on
GPU 0 and two execution instances on GPUs 1 and 2.

```
  instance_group [
    {
      count: 1
      kind: KIND_GPU
      gpus: [ 0 ]
    },
    {
      count: 2
      kind: KIND_GPU
      gpus: [ 1, 2 ]
    }
  ]
```
For a more detailed example of using instance groups, see
 [this guide](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_2-improving_resource_utilization#concurrent-model-execution).
### CPU Model Instance

The instance group setting is also used to enable execution of a model
on the CPU. A model can be executed on the CPU even if there is a GPU
available in the system. The following places two execution instances
on the CPU.

```
  instance_group [
    {
      count: 2
      kind: KIND_CPU
    }
  ]
```

If no `count` is specified for a KIND_CPU instance group, then the default instance
count will be 2 for selected backends (Tensorflow and Onnxruntime). All
other backends will default to 1.

### Host Policy

The instance group setting is associated with a host policy. The following
configuration will associate all instances created by the instance group setting
with host policy "policy_0". By default the host policy will be set according to
the device kind of the instance, for instance, KIND_CPU is "cpu", KIND_MODEL is
"model", and KIND_GPU is "gpu_\<gpu_id\>".

```
  instance_group [
    {
      count: 2
      kind: KIND_CPU
      host_policy: "policy_0"
    }
  ]
```

### Rate Limiter Configuration

Instance group optionally specifies [rate limiter](rate_limiter.md)
configuration which controls how the rate limiter operates on the
instances in the group. The rate limiter configuration is ignored if
rate limiting is off. If rate limiting is on and if an instance_group
does not provide this configuration, then the execution on the model
instances belonging to this group will not be limited in any way by
the rate limiter. The configuration includes the following
specifications:

#### Resources

The set of [resources](rate_limiter.md#resources) required to execute
a model instance. The "name" field identifies the resource and "count"
field refers to the number of copies of the resource that the model
instance in the group requires to run. The "global" field specifies
whether the resource is per-device or shared globally across the system.
Loaded models can not specify a resource with the same name both as global
and non-global. If no resources are provided then triton assumes the
execution of model instance does not require any resources and will
start executing as soon as model instance is available.

#### Priority

Priority serves as a weighting value to be used for prioritizing across
all the instances of all the models. An instance with priority 2 will be
given 1/2 the number of scheduling chances as an instance with priority
1.

The following example specifies the instances in the group requires
four "R1" and two "R2" resources for execution. Resource "R2" is a global
resource. Additionally, the rate-limiter priority of the instance_group
is 2.

```
  instance_group [
    {
      count: 1
      kind: KIND_GPU
      gpus: [ 0, 1, 2 ]
      rate_limiter {
        resources [
          {
            name: "R1"
            count: 4
          },
          {
            name: "R2"
            global: True
            count: 2
          }
        ]
        priority: 2
      }
    }
  ]
```

The above configuration creates 3 model instances, one on each device
(0, 1 and 2). The three instances will not contend for "R1" among
themselves as "R1" is local for their own device, however, they will
contend for "R2" because it is specified as a global resource which
means "R2" is shared across the system. Though these instances don't
contend for "R1" among themsleves, but they will contend for "R1"
with other model instances which includes "R1" in their resource
requirements and run on the same device as them.

### Ensemble Model Instance Groups

[Ensemble models](architecture.md#ensemble-models)
are an abstraction Triton uses to execute a user-defined pipeline of models.
Since there is no physical instance associated with an ensemble model, the
`instance_group` field can not be specified for it.

However, each composing model that makes up an ensemble can specify
`instance_group` in its config file and individually support parallel
execution as described above when the ensemble receives multiple requests.

## CUDA Compute Capability

Similar to the `default_model_filename` field, you can optionally specify the
`cc_model_filenames` field to map the GPU's
[CUDA Compute Capability](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus)
to a corresponding model filename at model load time. This is particularly
useful for TensorRT models, since they are generally tied to a specific
compute capability.

```
cc_model_filenames [
  {
    key: "7.5"
    value: "resnet50_T4.plan"
  },
  {
    key: "8.0"
    value: "resnet50_A100.plan"
  }
]
```

## Scheduling And Batching

Triton supports batch inferencing by allowing individual inference
requests to specify a batch of inputs. The inferencing for a batch of
inputs is performed at the same time which is especially important for
GPUs since it can greatly increase inferencing throughput. In many use
cases the individual inference requests are not batched, therefore,
they do not benefit from the throughput benefits of batching.

The inference server contains multiple scheduling and batching
algorithms that support many different model types and use-cases. More
information about model types and schedulers can be found in [Models
And Schedulers](architecture.md#models-and-schedulers).

### Default Scheduler

The default scheduler is used for a model if none of the
*scheduling_choice* properties are specified in the model
configuration. The default scheduler simply distributes inference
requests to all [model instances](#instance-groups) configured for the
model.

### Dynamic Batcher

Dynamic batching is a feature of Triton that allows inference requests
to be combined by the server, so that a batch is created
dynamically. Creating a batch of requests typically results in
increased throughput. The dynamic batcher should be used for
[stateless models](architecture.md#stateless-models). The dynamically created
batches are distributed to all [model instances](#instance-groups)
configured for the model.

Dynamic batching is enabled and configured independently for each
model using the *ModelDynamicBatching* property in the model
configuration. These settings control the preferred size(s) of the
dynamically created batches, the maximum time that requests can be
delayed in the scheduler to allow other requests to join the dynamic
batch, and queue properties such a queue size, priorities, and
time-outs. Refer to
[this guide](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_2-improving_resource_utilization#what-is-dynamic-batching)
for a more detailed example of dynamic batching.

#### Recommended Configuration Process

The individual settings are described in detail below. The following
steps are the recommended process for tuning the dynamic batcher for
each model. It is also possible to use the [Model
Analyzer](model_analyzer.md) to automatically search across different
dynamic batcher configurations.

* Decide on a [maximum batch size](#maximum-batch-size) for the model.

* Add the following to the model configuration to enable the dynamic
  batcher with all default settings. By default the dynamic batcher
  will create batches as large as possible up to the maximum batch
  size and will not [delay](#delayed-batching) when forming batches.

```
  dynamic_batching { }
```

* Use the
  [Performance Analyzer](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client/blob/main/src/c++/perf_analyzer/README.md)
  to determine the latency and throughput provided by the default dynamic
  batcher configuration.

* If the default configuration results in latency values that are
  within your latency budget, try one or both of the following to
  trade off increased latency for increased throughput:

  * Increase maximum batch size.

  * Set [batch delay](#delayed-batching) to a non-zero value. Try
    increasing delay values until the latency budget is exceeded to
    see the impact on throughput.

* [Preferred batch sizes](#preferred-batch-sizes) should not be used
  for most models. A preferred batch size(s) should only be configured
  if that batch size results in significantly higher performance than
  other batch sizes.

#### Preferred Batch Sizes

The *preferred_batch_size* property indicates the batch sizes that the
dynamic batcher should attempt to create. For most models,
*preferred_batch_size* should not be specified, as described in
[Recommended Configuration
Process](#recommended-configuration-process). An exception is TensorRT
models that specify multiple optimization profiles for different batch
sizes. In this case, because some optimization profiles may give
significant performance improvement compared to others, it may make
sense to use *preferred_batch_size* for the batch sizes supported by
those higher-performance optimization profiles.

The following example shows the configuration that enables dynamic
batching with preferred batch sizes of 4 and 8.

```
  dynamic_batching {
    preferred_batch_size: [ 4, 8 ]
  }
```

When a model instance becomes available for inferencing, the dynamic
batcher will attempt to create batches from the requests that are
available in the scheduler. Requests are added to the batch in the
order the requests were received. If the dynamic batcher can form a
batch of a preferred size(s) it will create a batch of the largest
possible preferred size and send it for inferencing. If the dynamic
batcher cannot form a batch of a preferred size (or if the dynamic
batcher is not configured with any preferred batch sizes), it will
send a batch of the largest size possible that is less than the
maximum batch size allowed by the model (but see the following section
for the delay option that changes this behavior).

The size of generated batches can be examined in aggregate using
[count metrics](metrics.md#inference-request-metrics).

#### Delayed Batching

The dynamic batcher can be configured to allow requests to be delayed
for a limited time in the scheduler to allow other requests to join
the dynamic batch. For example, the following configuration sets the
maximum delay time of 100 microseconds for a request.

```
  dynamic_batching {
    max_queue_delay_microseconds: 100
  }
```

The *max_queue_delay_microseconds* property setting changes the
dynamic batcher behavior when a maximum size (or preferred size) batch
cannot be created. When a batch of a maximum or preferred size cannot
be created from the available requests, the dynamic batcher will delay
sending the batch as long as no request is delayed longer than the
configured *max_queue_delay_microseconds* value. If a new request
arrives during this delay and allows the dynamic batcher to form a
batch of a maximum or preferred batch size, then that batch is sent
immediately for inferencing. If the delay expires the dynamic batcher
sends the batch as is, even though it is not a maximum or preferred
size.

#### Preserve Ordering

The *preserve_ordering* property is used to force all responses to be
returned in the same order as requests were received. See the
[protobuf
documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/common/blob/main/protobuf/model_config.proto)
for details.

#### Priority Levels

By default the dynamic batcher maintains a single queue that holds all
inference requests for a model. The requests are processed and batched
in order.  The *priority_levels* property can be used to create
multiple priority levels within the dynamic batcher so that requests
with higher priority are allowed to bypass requests with lower
priority. Requests at the same priority level are processed in
order. Inference requests that do not set a priority are scheduled
using the *default_priority_level* property.

#### Queue Policy

The dynamic batcher provides several settings that control how
requests are queued for batching.

When *priority_levels* is not defined, the *ModelQueuePolicy* for the
single queue can be set with *default_queue_policy*.  When
*priority_levels* is defined, each priority level can have a different
*ModelQueuePolicy* as specified by *default_queue_policy* and *priority_queue_policy*.

The *ModelQueuePolicy* property allows a maximum queue size to be set
using the *max_queue_size*. The *timeout_action*,
*default_timeout_microseconds* and *allow_timeout_override* settings
allow the queue to be configured so that individual requests are
rejected or deferred if their time in the queue exceeds a specified
timeout.

#### Custom Batching

You can set custom batching rules that work _in addition to_ the specified behavior of the dynamic batcher.
To do so, you would implement five functions in [tritonbackend.h](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/core/blob/main/include/triton/core/tritonbackend.h)
and create a shared library. These functions are described below.

| Function | Description|
| :--          |   :--           |
| TRITONBACKEND_ModelBatchIncludeRequest | Determines whether a request should be included in the current batch |
| TRITONBACKEND_ModelBatchInitialize | Initializes a record-keeping data structure for a new batch |
| TRITONBACKEND_ModelBatchFinalize | Deallocates the record-keeping data structure after a batch is formed |
| TRITONBACKEND_ModelBatcherInitialize | Initializes a read-only data structure for use with all batches |
| TRITONBACKEND_ModelBatcherFinalize | Deallocates the read-only data structure after the model is unloaded |

The path to the shared library can be passed into the model configuration via the parameter
`TRITON_BATCH_STRATEGY_PATH`. If not provided, the dynamic batcher will look for a custom
batching strategy named batchstrategy.so in the model version, model, and backend directories,
in that order. If found, it will load it. This lets you easily share a custom batching strategy
among all models using the same backend.

For a tutorial of how to create and use a custom batching library, please see the
[backend examples directory](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/tree/main/examples#volume-batching).

### Sequence Batcher

Like the dynamic batcher, the sequence batcher combines non-batched
inference requests, so that a batch is created dynamically. Unlike the
dynamic batcher, the sequence batcher should be used for
[stateful models](architecture.md#stateful-models) where a sequence of
inference requests must be routed to the same model instance. The
dynamically created batches are distributed to all [model
instances](#instance-groups) configured for the model.

Sequence batching is enabled and configured independently for each
model using the *ModelSequenceBatching* property in the model
configuration. These settings control the sequence timeout as well as
configuring how Triton will send control signals to the model
indicating sequence start, end, ready and correlation ID. See
[Stateful Models](architecture.md#stateful-models) for more
information and examples.

#### Iterative Sequences

> [!NOTE]
> Iterative sequences are *provisional* and likely to change in future versions.

The sequence batcher supports stateful execution of "iterative
sequences" where a single request is processed over a number of
scheduling iterations. "Iterative sequences" enable the scheduler to
batch multiple inflight requests at each step and allow the model or
backend to complete a request at any iteration.

For models and backends that support "iterative sequences", users can
enable support in the sequence batcher by specifying:

```
  sequence_batching {
    iterative_sequence: true
  }
```

An "iterative sequence" refers to stateful models that iteratively
process a single request until a complete response is generated.  When
iterative sequence is enabled, the sequence scheduler will expect a
single incoming request to initiate the sequence. Backends that
support iterative sequences can then yield back to the sequence
batcher to reschedule the request for further execution in a future
batch.

Because only one request is used to represent the "iterative
sequence", the user doesn't need to set [control
inputs](architecture.md#control-inputs) mentioned in the previous
section. They will be filled internally by the scheduler.

"Iterative sequences" can be [decoupled](#decoupled) where more than
one response can be generated during execution or non-decoupled where
a single response is generated when the full response is complete.

The main advantage of "iterative sequences" is the ability to use
Triton's native batching capabilities to form batches of requests at
different iteration stages without having to maintain additional state
in the backend. Typically batches executed by backends are completed
in the same execution which can waste resources if the execution of
one of the requests in the batch takes much longer than the rest. With
"iterative sequences", processing for each request in a batch can be
broken down into multiple iterations and a backend can start
processing new requests as soon as any request is complete.

##### Continuous/Inflight Batching with Iterative Sequences

Continuous batching, iteration level batching, and inflight batching
are terms used in large language model (LLM) inferencing to describe
batching strategies that form batches of requests at each iteration
step. By forming batches "continuously" inference servers can increase
throughput by reusing batch slots as soon as they are free without
waiting for all requests in a batch to complete.

As the number of steps required to process a request can vary
significantly, batching existing requests and new requests continuously
can have a significant improvement on throughput and latency.

To achieve inflight batching with iterative sequences, the backend
should break request processing into a number of steps, where each
step corresponds to one Triton model instance execution. At the end of
each step, the model instance will release requests that have been
completed and reschedule requests that are still inflight. Triton will
then form and schedule the next batch of requests that mixes new and
rescheduled requests.

### Ensemble Scheduler

The ensemble scheduler must be used for [ensemble
 models](architecture.md#ensemble-models) and cannot be used for any
 other type of model.

The ensemble scheduler is enabled and configured independently for
each model using the *ModelEnsembleScheduling* property in the model
configuration. The settings describe the models that are included in
the ensemble and the flow of tensor values between the models. See
[Ensemble Models](architecture.md#ensemble-models) for more
information and examples.

## Optimization Policy

The model configuration *ModelOptimizationPolicy* property is used to
specify optimization and prioritization settings for a model. These
settings control if/how a model is optimized by the backend and how it
is scheduled and executed by Triton. See the [ModelConfig
protobuf](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/common/blob/main/protobuf/model_config.proto)
and [optimization](optimization.md#framework-specific-optimization)
documentation for the currently available settings.

## Model Warmup

When a model is loaded by Triton the corresponding
[backend](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/README.md)
initializes for that model.  For some backends, some or all of this
initialization is deferred until the model receives its first
inference request (or first few inference requests). As a result, the
first (few) inference requests can be significantly slower due to
deferred initialization.

To avoid these initial, slow inference requests, Triton provides a
configuration option that enables a model to be "warmed up" so that it
is completely initialized before the first inference request is
received. When the *ModelWarmup* property is defined in a model
configuration, Triton will not show the model as being ready for
inference until model warmup has completed.

The model configuration *ModelWarmup* is used to specify warmup
settings for a model. The settings define a series of inference
requests that Triton will create to warm-up each model instance. A
model instance will be served only if it completes the requests
successfully.  Note that the effect of warming up models varies
depending on the framework backend, and it will cause Triton to be
less responsive to model update, so the users should experiment and
choose the configuration that suits their need. See the
[ModelWarmup protobuf](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/common/blob/main/protobuf/model_config.proto)
documentation for the currently available settings, and
[L0_warmup](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/qa/L0_warmup/test.sh)
for examples on specifying different variants of warmup samples.

## Response Cache

The model configuration `response_cache` section has an `enable` boolean used to
enable the Response Cache for this model.

```
response_cache {
  enable: true
}
```

In addition to enabling the cache in the model config, a `--cache-config` must
be specified when starting the server to enable caching on the server-side. See
the [Response Cache](response_cache.md) doc for more details on enabling
server-side caching.
