<!--
# Copyright (c) 2018-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
#
# Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
# modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
# are met:
#  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
#  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Client Examples

To simplify communication with Triton, the Triton project provides C++
and Python [client libraries](client_libraries.md). This section
describes several example applications that show how to use these
libraries.

* C++ and Python versions of *image_client*, an example application
  that uses the C++ or Python client library to execute image
  classification models on Triton. See [Image Classification
  Example](#image-classification-example).

* Several simple [C++ examples](../src/clients/c%2B%2B/examples) show
  how to use the C++ library to communicate with Triton to perform
  inferencing and other task. The C++ examples demonstrating the
  HTTP/REST client are named with a *simple_http_* prefix and the
  examples demonstrating the GRPC client are named with a
  *simple_grpc_* prefix. See [Simple Example
  Applications](#simple-example-applications).

* Several simple [Python examples](../src/clients/python/examples)
  show how to use the Python library to communicate with Triton to
  perform inferencing and other task. The Python examples
  demonstrating the HTTP/REST client are named with a *simple_http_*
  prefix and the examples demonstrating the GRPC client are named with
  a *simple_grpc_* prefix. See [Simple Example
  Applications](#simple-example-applications).

* A couple of [Python examples that communicate with Triton using a
  Python GRPC API](../src/clients/python/examples) generated by the
  [protoc compiler](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/). *grpc_client.py* is
  a simple example that shows simple API
  usage. *grpc_image_client.py* is functionally equivalent to
  *image_client* but that uses a generated GRPC client stub to
  communicate with Triton.

* The [protoc compiler](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/) can generate a
  GRPC API in a large number of programming languages. See
  [src/clients/go](../src/clients/go) for an example for the [Go
  programming language](https://golang.org/).

## Getting the Client Examples

The client examples are included with the client libraries when you
[download from
NGC](client_libraries.md#download-docker-image-from-ngc), [download
from GitHub](client_libraries.md#download-from-github) or [build using
Docker](client_libraries.md#build-using-docker) or
[cmake](client_libraries.md#build-using-cmake).

## Simple Example Applications

This section describes several of the simple example applications and
the features that they illustrate.

### String Datatype

Some frameworks support tensors where each element in the tensor is a
string (see [Datatypes](model_configuration.md#datatypes) for
information on supported datatypes).

String tensors are demonstrated in the C++ example applications
simple_http_string_infer_client.cc and
simple_grpc_string_infer_client.cc.  String tensors are demonstrated
in the Python example application simple_http_string_infer_client.py
and simple_grpc_string_infer_client.py.

### System Shared Memory

Using system shared memory to communicate tensors between the client
library and Triton can significantly improve performance in some
cases.

Using system shared memory is demonstrated in the C++ example
applications simple_http_shm_client.cc and simple_grpc_shm_client.cc.
Using system shared memory is demonstrated in the Python example
application simple_http_shm_client.py and simple_grpc_shm_client.py.

Python does not have a standard way of allocating and accessing shared
memory so as an example a simple [system shared memory
module](../src/clients/python/library/tritonclient/utils/shared_memory)
is provided that can be used with the Python client library to create,
set and destroy system shared memory.

### CUDA Shared Memory

Using CUDA shared memory to communicate tensors between the client
library and Triton can significantly improve performance in some
cases.

Using CUDA shared memory is demonstrated in the C++ example
applications simple_http_cudashm_client.cc and
simple_grpc_cudashm_client.cc.  Using CUDA shared memory is
demonstrated in the Python example application
simple_http_cudashm_client.py and simple_grpc_cudashm_client.py.

Python does not have a standard way of allocating and accessing shared
memory so as an example a simple [CUDA shared memory
module](../src/clients/python/library/tritonclient/utils/cuda_shared_memory)
is provided that can be used with the Python client library to create,
set and destroy CUDA shared memory.

### Client API for Stateful Models

When performing inference using a [stateful
model](architecture.md#stateful-models), a client must identify which
inference requests belong to the same sequence and also when a
sequence starts and ends.

Each sequence is identified with a sequence ID that is provided when
an inference request is made. It is up to the clients to create a
unique sequence ID. For each sequence the first inference request
should be marked as the start of the sequence and the last inference
requests should be marked as the end of the sequence.

The use of sequence ID and start and end flags are demonstrated in the
C++ example applications simple_http_sequence_stream_infer_client.cc
and simple_grpc_sequence_stream_infer_client.cc.  The use of sequence
ID and start and end flags are demonstrated in the Python example
application simple_http_sequence_stream_infer_client.py and
simple_grpc_sequence_stream_infer_client.py.

## Image Classification Example

The image classification example that uses the C++ client API is
available at
[src/clients/c++/examples/image_client.cc](../src/clients/c%2B%2B/examples/image_client.cc). The
Python version of the image classification client is available at
[src/clients/python/examples/image_client.py](../src/clients/python/examples/image_client.py).

To use image_client (or image_client.py) you must first have a running
Triton that is serving one or more image classification models. The
image_client application requires that the model have a single image
input and produce a single classification output. If you don't have a
model repository with image classification models see
[QuickStart](quickstart.md) for instructions on how to create one.

Once Triton is running you can use the image_client application to
send inference requests. You can specify a single image or a directory
holding images. Here we send a request for the resnet50_netdef model
for an image from the [qa/images](../qa/images).

```bash
$ image_client -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION qa/images/mug.jpg
Request 0, batch size 1
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.723991
```

The Python version of the application accepts the same command-line
arguments.

```bash
$ python image_client.py -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION qa/images/mug.jpg
Request 0, batch size 1
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.778078556061
```

The image_client and image_client.py applications use the client
libraries to talk to Triton. By default image_client instructs the
client library to use HTTP/REST protocol, but you can use the GRPC
protocol by providing the -i flag. You must also use the -u flag to
point at the GRPC endpoint on Triton.

```bash
$ image_client -i grpc -u localhost:8001 -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION qa/images/mug.jpg
Request 0, batch size 1
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.723991
```

By default the client prints the most probable classification for the
image. Use the -c flag to see more classifications.

```bash
$ image_client -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION -c 3 qa/images/mug.jpg
Request 0, batch size 1
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.723991
    968 (CUP) = 0.270953
    967 (ESPRESSO) = 0.00115996
```

The -b flag allows you to send a batch of images for inferencing.
The image_client application will form the batch from the image or
images that you specified. If the batch is bigger than the number of
images then image_client will just repeat the images to fill the
batch.

```bash
$ image_client -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION -c 3 -b 2 qa/images/mug.jpg
Request 0, batch size 2
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.778078556061
    968 (CUP) = 0.213262036443
    967 (ESPRESSO) = 0.00293014757335
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.778078556061
    968 (CUP) = 0.213262036443
    967 (ESPRESSO) = 0.00293014757335
```

Provide a directory instead of a single image to perform inferencing
on all images in the directory.

```
$ image_client -m resnet50_netdef -s INCEPTION -c 3 -b 2 qa/images
Request 0, batch size 2
Image '../qa/images/car.jpg':
    817 (SPORTS CAR) = 0.836187
    511 (CONVERTIBLE) = 0.0708251
    751 (RACER) = 0.0597549
Image '../qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.723991
    968 (CUP) = 0.270953
    967 (ESPRESSO) = 0.00115996
Request 1, batch size 2
Image '../qa/images/vulture.jpeg':
    23 (VULTURE) = 0.992326
    8 (HEN) = 0.00231854
    84 (PEACOCK) = 0.00201471
Image '../qa/images/car.jpg':
    817 (SPORTS CAR) = 0.836187
    511 (CONVERTIBLE) = 0.0708251
    751 (RACER) = 0.0597549
```

The
[grpc_image_client.py](../src/clients/python/examples/grpc_image_client.py)
application behaves the same as the image_client except that instead
of using the client library it uses the GRPC generated library to
communicate with Triton.

## Ensemble Image Classification Example Application

In comparison to the image classification example above, this example
uses an ensemble of an image-preprocessing model implemented as a
custom backend and a Caffe2 ResNet50 model. This ensemble allows you
to send the raw image binaries in the request and receive
classification results without preprocessing the images on the
client. The ensemble image classification example that uses the C++
client API is
[ensemble_image_client.cc](../src/clients/c%2B%2B/examples/ensemble_image_client.cc). The
Python version of the image classification client is
[ensemble_image_client.py](../src/clients/python/examples/ensemble_image_client.py).

To use ensemble_image_client (or ensemble_image_client.py) you must
first have a running Triton that is serving the
"preprocess_inception_ensemble" model and the models it depends on. The
models are provided in an example ensemble model repository. See
[QuickStart](quicksstart.md) for instructions on how to create the
example model repository.

Once Triton is running you can use the ensemble_image_client
application to send inference requests. You can specify a single image
or a directory holding images. Here we send a request for the ensemble
for an image from [qa/images](../qa/images).

```bash
$ ensemble_image_client qa/images/mug.jpg
Image 'qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.723991
```

The Python version of the application accepts the same command-line
arguments.

```bash
$ python ensemble_image_client.py qa/images/mug.jpg
Image 'qa/images/mug.jpg':
    504 (COFFEE MUG) = 0.778078556061
```

Similar to [image_client example described
above](#image_classification_example), ensemble_image_client can be
instructed to use GRPC protocol, to return mulitple classifications,
and to process a directory of images.
